README.md, before:

## About

`runp` is a simple command line tool that runs (shell) commands in parallel. It's useful when you want to run multiple commands at once to save time. It's a single binary. It's been tested on Linux and MacOS (darwin).

## Installation

Download the latest [release](https://github.com/jreisinger/runp/releases) to your `bin` folder (or some other folder on your `PATH`) and make it executable:

```
export SYS=linux  # darwin
export ARCH=amd64 # arm
curl -L https://github.com/jreisinger/runp/releases/latest/download/runp-$SYS-$ARCH -o ~/bin/runp
chmod u+x ~/bin/runp
```

## Description and Usage examples

Commands can be read from file(s) or stdin and must be separated by newlines. Comments and empty lines are ignored.

You can use shell variables in the commands.

`runp` exit status is 0 if all commands exit with 0 (OK).

`runp` prints a progress bar and info about command's execution (OK/ERR, run time, command to run) to stderr. Otherwise stdin and stderr works as you would expect. 

### Run some test commands (read from file)

```
# Create a file containing commands to run in parallel.
cat << EOF > /tmp/test-commands.txt
sleep 5
sleep 3
blah     # this will fail
ls $PWD  # 'PWD' shell variable is used here
EOF

# Run commands from the file.
runp /tmp/test-commands.txt > /dev/null
```

We suppressed the printing of commands' stdout by redirecting it to `/dev/null`.

### Get directories' sizes (read from stdin)

```
echo -e "$HOME\n/etc\n/tmp" | runp -n -p 'du -sh' 2> /dev/null 
```

We suppressed the printing of `runp`'s progress bar and info about command's execution by redirecting stderr to `/dev/null`.

### Ping several hosts and see packet loss (read from stdin)

```
runp -p 'ping -c 5 -W 2' -s '| grep loss'
localhost
1.1.1.1
8.8.8.8
# Press `Ctrl-D` when done entering the hosts
```

We used `-p` and `-s` to add prefix and suffix strings to the commands (hosts in this case).

### Get Jupiter images from NASA

```
base='https://images-api.nasa.gov/search'
query='jupiter'
desc='planet'
type='image'
curl -s "$base?q=$query&description=$desc&media_type=$type" | \
jq -r .collection.items[].href | head -50 | runp -p 'curl -s' | jq -r .[] | grep large | \
runp -p 'curl -s -L -O'
```

### Compress images

```
find . -iname '*.jpg' | runp -p 'gzip --best'
```

### Measure HTTP request and response time

```
export CURL="curl -w 'time_total:  %{time_total}\n' -o /dev/null -s https://golang.org/"
perl -E 'for (1..10) { say $ENV{CURL} }' | runp 2> /dev/null
```

### Find open TCP ports

```
$ cat host-port.txt
localhost 80
localhost 81
127.0.0.1 443
127.0.0.1 444
localhost 22
$ cat host-port.txt | ./runp-linux-arm -p 'netcat -v -w2 -z' -q 2>&1 | egrep 'open$'
localhost [127.0.0.1] 443 (https) open
localhost [127.0.0.1] 80 (http) open
localhost [127.0.0.1] 22 (ssh) open
```

We used `-q` to suppress output from `runp` itself. Then we redirect stderr to stdout since netcat prints its messages to stderr. This way web can `grep` netcat's messages.

## Development

Test and install:

```
make install
```

Test and build (cross-compile for multiple platforms):

```
make release
```

Working with tags:

```
# List tags
git tag

# Add new tag
git tag -a v2.1.3 -m "split code into packages, use modules, cleanup"
# Push tags to remote
git push origin --tags

# Delete tag
git tag -d v2.0.2
# Delete remote tag
git push --delete origin v2.0.2
```

Commit message:

update files README.md, main.go

README.md, after:

## About

`runp` is a simple command line tool that runs (shell) commands in parallel. It's useful when you want to run multiple commands at once to save time. It's a single binary. It's been tested on Linux and MacOS (darwin).

## Installation

Download the latest [release](https://github.com/jreisinger/runp/releases) to your `bin` folder (or some other folder on your `PATH`) and make it executable:

```
export SYS=linux  # darwin
export ARCH=amd64 # arm
curl -L https://github.com/jreisinger/runp/releases/latest/download/runp-$SYS-$ARCH -o ~/bin/runp
chmod u+x ~/bin/runp
```

## Description and Usage examples

Commands can be read from file(s) or stdin and must be separated by newlines. Comments and empty lines are ignored.

You can use shell variables in the commands.

`runp` exit status is 0 if all commands exit with 0 (OK).

`runp` prints a progress bar and info about command's execution (OK/ERR, run time, command to run) to stderr. Otherwise stdin and stderr works as you would expect. 

### Run some test commands (read from file)

```
# Create a file containing commands to run in parallel.
cat << EOF > /tmp/test-commands.txt
sleep 5
sleep 3
blah     # this will fail
ls $PWD  # 'PWD' shell variable is used here
EOF

# Run commands from the file.
runp /tmp/test-commands.txt > /dev/null
```

We suppressed the printing of commands' stdout by redirecting it to `/dev/null`.

### Get directories' sizes (read from stdin)

```
echo -e "$HOME\n/etc\n/tmp" | runp -n -p 'du -sh' 2> /dev/null 
```

We suppressed the printing of `runp`'s progress bar and info about command's execution by redirecting stderr to `/dev/null`.

### Ping several hosts and see packet loss (read from stdin)

```
runp -p 'ping -c 5 -W 2' -s '| grep loss'
localhost
1.1.1.1
8.8.8.8
# Press `Ctrl-D` when done entering the hosts
```

We used `-p` and `-s` to add prefix and suffix strings to the commands (hosts in this case).

### Get Jupiter images from NASA

```
base='https://images-api.nasa.gov/search'
query='jupiter'
desc='planet'
type='image'
curl -s "$base?q=$query&description=$desc&media_type=$type" | \
jq -r .collection.items[].href | head -50 | runp -p 'curl -s' | jq -r .[] | grep large | \
runp -p 'curl -s -L -O'
```

### Compress images

```
find . -iname '*.jpg' | runp -p 'gzip --best'
```

### Measure HTTP request and response time

```
export CURL="curl -w 'time_total:  %{time_total}\n' -o /dev/null -s https://golang.org/"
perl -E 'for (1..10) { say $ENV{CURL} }' | runp 2> /dev/null
```

### Find open TCP ports

```
$ cat host-port.txt
localhost 80
localhost 81
127.0.0.1 443
127.0.0.1 444
localhost 22
$ cat host-port.txt | ./runp-linux-arm -p 'netcat -v -w2 -z' -q 2>&1 | egrep 'open$'
localhost [127.0.0.1] 443 (https) open
localhost [127.0.0.1] 80 (http) open
localhost [127.0.0.1] 22 (ssh) open
```

We used `-q` to suppress output from `runp` itself. Then we redirect stderr to stdout since netcat prints its messages to stderr. This way web can `grep` netcat's messages.

## Development

Test and install (to `~/go/bin/`):

```
make install
```

Test and build (cross-compile for multiple platforms):

```
make release
```

Working with GitHub releases:

*NOTE*: don't forget to bump up the version in `main.go`!

```
# List existing tags
git tag

# Add new tag
git tag -a v2.1.3 -m "split code into packages, use modules, cleanup"
# Push tags to remote
git push origin --tags

# Delete tag
git tag -d v2.0.2
# Delete remote tag
git push --delete origin v2.0.2
```
